README.md, before:

# Project Finitte

## Project Description
My game consists of a boss battle inspired in Undertale. The gameplay is a vertical infinite scrol, where the attack of the boss rains on the player. To win, the goal of the player is to survive the enemy's attack by avoiding it with the movement keys and collect counter-attack tokens, which will also be raining down with less frequency, to chip away at the life bar and defeat the boss.

## Project Planning
### Day 1
Create the html structure and make the player move around the board.
- Create base structure of the game with placeholders
- Create a div with the id #player
- Create a js file with the player class
- Write the code for the movement of the player
- Create a js file to get the events of keypress/keyup.....
- Create a js file for the boss


### Day 2
Create the boss attack, the counter-attack and the movement mechanics. And create the starting screen that will run the gameplay.
- Create a js file with the attack class
- Create a js file with the counter-attack class
- Write the code for both elements' movement and interaction with the player
- Create the collision mechanic for both
- Create the game start screen
- Create a functional button to start the game


### Day 3
Create the life bars of the boss and the player and link them to the interations between the player and the element. And create the winning/losing screen that will stop the game from running.
- Create a life bar for each
- Write the code for the decreasing life mechanic upon collision with either the boss attack or the counter-attack tokens
- Create the losing or winning screen
- Create the button to reset the game
- Create the button to exit to the starting screen


### Day 4
Polish code and replace the placeholders with the official designs.
- Revise code
- Correct mistakes and inconsistencies
- Import and apply the final designs of the elements
- Prepare presentation

## Project Report

Commit message:

polish code, add sound effects, update read me

README.md, after:

# Project Finitte

## Project Description
My game consists of a boss battle inspired in Undertale. The gameplay is a vertical infinite scroll, where the attack of the boss rains on the player. To win, the goal of the player is to survive the enemy's attack by avoiding it with the movement keys and collect counter-attack tokens, which will also be raining down with less frequency, to chip away at the life bar and defeat the boss.

#### Game link: https://kiridea.github.io/Project-Finitte/

## Project Planning
### Day 1
Create the html structure and make the player move around the board.
- Create base structure of the game with placeholders
- Create a div with the id #player
- Create a js file with the player class
- Write the code for the movement of the player
- Create a js file to get the events of keypress/keyup.....
- Create a js file for the boss


### Day 2
Create the boss attack, the counter-attack and the movement mechanics. And create the starting screen that will run the gameplay.
- Create a js file with the attack class
- Create a js file with the counter-attack class
- Write the code for both elements' movement and interaction with the player
- Create the collision mechanic for both
- Create the game start screen
- Create a functional button to start the game


### Day 3
Create the life bars of the boss and the player and link them to the interations between the player and the element. And create the winning/losing screen that will stop the game from running.
- Create a life bar for each
- Write the code for the decreasing life mechanic upon collision with either the boss attack or the counter-attack tokens
- Create the losing or winning screen
- Create the button to reset the game
- Create the button to exit to the starting screen


### Day 4
Polish code and replace the placeholders with the official designs.
- Revise code
- Correct mistakes and inconsistencies
- Import and apply the final designs of the elements
- Polish designs and gameplay
- Prepare presentation

## Project Report
The project was completed successfully within the allotted time. Simplicity and practicality were paramount for the development of the game in order to get plenty of time to correct and add anything that needed fixing or adjusting before the deadline.

Some difficulties that I found during the process were concerning the front end of the project, properly aligning elements and applying styles for a consistent look was the most time-consuming part (partially because the visual elements were drawn from scratch), but were ultimately achieved through trial and error. 

As for the logic, the most issues I had was with the collision mechanic and the player interacting with the environment and the raining elements. For the player to move around and detect collisions it was necessary to write repetitive lines of code so all possibilities of the gameplay were taken into account and properly defined. The code in itself isn't very complex, but the challenge of dealing with lines that are slight variations of each other lies in correctly giving each command its corresponding outcome and a single character could output an error.

All in all, it was a project that really enhanced my interest for coding. The difficulties made way for plenty of experiences to acquire which will be useful for future projects and the freedom to choose the theme made it incredibly engaging.
